 
Di Lu -芦笛 
dilu@umich.edu 
Overview 
I am leading a Google Search team called ​Pathways​ with 13 engineers and >20 across-functional 
people. I founded this effort and grew it into a well-recognized team. Prior to Pathways, I was the 
tech lead for ​Jobs Search​ product. I was the founding engineer and the feature lead for the initial 
launch and I became tech lead for the team with ~20 engineers later. For multiple successful 
projects, I lead end-to-end developments including data acquisition, crawling, indexing, serving, 
triggering, ranking, UI, logging, experimentation and UX. I am also a highly-technical hands-on 
and prolific engineer and wrote 400k lines of code in the last 4 years at Google.  
Skills 
●Team building, interviewing & recruiting, people management, performance management 
●Product development, cross-functional collaboration 
●Extensive knowledge of Google Search stack including crawling, indexing, serving, 
ranking, UI, triggering, logging and experimentation 
GOOGLE EXPERIENCE 
Pathways​ - Tech Lead/Manager 
Sep 2018 - Present 
Project description​: ​Pathways​ enables anyone to discover, explore, compare and connect to 
high-quality job training programs for better outcomes. It was announced in Search 20th 
anniversary event, is launched in Virginia, Washington and Indiana and will expand to whole US 
in Q1’2020. 
Responsibility​: 
●Manage 10 engineers across 2 sites and lead a team with 20+ cross-functional people 
●Lead end-to-end development including data acquisition, crawling, indexing, serving, 
triggering, ranking, UI, logging, experimentation and UX 
●Scope project and set direction with PM and senior leaderships 
●Set data strategy to foster a healthy data ecosystem with partnership team 
●Set product strategy to create user-friendly product with PM and UX team 
●Design end-to-end technical architecture 
Employ 2.0 and Beyond, ​Tech Lead 
Nov 2017 - Feb 2019 
Project description​: ​Employ​ ​continued to grow rapidly and was launched on more platforms and 
more locales. By now, it is available in all major platforms and 200+ countries. I moved to New 
York and started a new team from scratch. 
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
 
Contributions​: 
●Set project direction with senior leadership 
●Built a successful NYC team from scratch 
●Led end-to-end development for Explore/Recommendation and ​Jobs for Veterans 
●Worked with Search infra team to design next-generation of serving/UI infrastructure 
●Participated Employ expansion and directly led surfacing expanding and UX part of 
internationalization 
Employ 1.0/1.1, ​Frontend Tech Lead 
Aug 2016 - Nov 2017 
Project description​: ​Employ​ ​enables people to find any jobs available online. Initially, it was 
announced and launched by Sundar during 2017 Google I/O.  
Contributions​: 
●Founded the project and helped assemble the team with ~30 engineers 
●Led frontend team with ~5 engineers  
●Designed a comprehensive generic frontend framework used by multiple other teams 
●Designed most frontend features on top of 20-year legacy system (GWS) and Employ was 
considered as the most complicated UX feature built on Search 
●Wrote >50% of frontend code and was most prolific engineer (~130k line in 1 year) 
PRE-GOOGLE EXPERIENCE 
PernixData (acquired by Nutanix),  San Jose​ - Senior Software Engineer 
Feb 2015 - Aug 2016 
Microsoft,  Shanghai​ - Software Engineer Intern, eCommerce team 
Nov 2014 - Jan 2015 
Amazon, Seattle​ - Software Engineer Intern, Infra team 
Sep 2014 - Nov 2014 
Google, Mountain View​ - Software Engineer Intern, Search Ads team 
May 2014 - Aug 2014 
EDUCATION 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor ​- Bachelor of Computer Science 
Sep 2013 - Apr 2015, GPA: 3.9/4.0 
Awards: Dean’s List 
Shanghai JiaoTong University, Shanghai ​- Electrical and Computer Engineering 
Sep 2010 - Jun 2015, GPA: 3.9/4.0 
Awards: National Scholarship (Top 1%) 
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
